Welcome back.
Let's start off with the very first item on our list.
Bubble sort.
Sounds kind of playful and nice.
Great.
Bubble sort is part of these first three sorting algorithms here that are called elementary sorts.
They're very simple basic sorting algorithms that you would usually think of if somebody asked you to
sort something at the top of your head.
The second item here that we're going to get into later Merse short and quick sort are more complex
algorithms that most of the time can be more efficient than the first ones.
But to build that Lego block let's start off with bubble sort.
How does bubble sort work.
Well let me ask you a question if I gave you a list and I ask you to sort it in your head imagining
that you had blocks of these letters.
How would you move them around or how would you tell a computer to move them around to sort it and bubble
sir might be one of the first things that comes into mind is the bubble sort comes from the idea of
bubbling up the largest value using multiple pastur Let's see what I mean by that.
We look at six in five and say six is larger than five.
And then we look at six and three and say six is larger than three let's swap them out.
Then we look at six and one and once again six is larger than one let's sort them up.
We look at six and eight eight is larger than six.
So keep it the way it is and let's move onto the next one.
Eight and seven.
Let's sort them out.
Eight is larger than seven eight in two.
Swap them out eight in four.
Swap them up.
We bubble up the highest number and then we go from the beginning five and three five in one we bubble
up the largest number so that 7 comes next.
Then we keep going keep going until 6 comes next.
Then we keep looping until we bubble up the highest number one by one One by one until we have a sorted
list that is bubble sort.
Now before we even code this what do you think of bubble sort.
As you might have guessed is not the most efficient is it.
Look at how many comparisons we did and everything was won by one looping and looping and looping and
bubble sort.
Is one of the simplest sorting algorithm but also one of the least efficient so don't hate me for showing
you how this works.
It's usually used as a learning tool as the first step in learning a certain algorithm.
What do you think the time complexity and space complexity of this algorithm is the answer.
Well we can just use the big Chichi if we look at bubble sort.
We see that the cases that we're most interested in is the average and worst case we see that it's o
of an square.
With a space complexity of of one we're not really creating any new data structures we're just comparing
items in nested loops one by one.
But let's see it in code to see why this is all over and square and I want to challenge you here in
the next video we're going to code along the bubble sort algorithm.
But if you want go ahead and try implementing this on your own and see how your code matches up with
mine in the next video.
HUTCHEON.